Refactor `load_object` (#6016)
oscar-system/Oscar.jl: docs/src/DeveloperDocumentation/serialization.md

  return hom(D, C, restricted_map)
end
```

The rule: only include parameters in `type_params` that `load_object` actually
needs for dispatch or reconstruction. If a type can be determined from a fixed
concrete type at load time, it does not need to be in `type_params`.

**Summary:** implement `type_params` whenever your type needs context to be
reconstructed. The parameters you return will be serialized into the `_type`
branch of the JSON, stored as shared `_refs` entries, and passed into
`load_object` as the second argument. The `load_object` signature should
match the type of the parameters:

| `type_params` return | `load_object` signature |
|---|---|
| `TypeParams(T, nothing)` | `load_object(s, tp::TypeParams{T})` |
| `TypeParams(T, parent_obj)` | `load_object(s, tp::TypeParams{T, ParentType})` |
| `TypeParams(T, :a=>x, :b=>y)` | `load_object(s, tp::TypeParams{T, <:Tuple{Vararg{Pair}}})` |

```@docs
TypeParams
```

#### `save_object` / `load_object`

These functions should be the first functions to be overloaded when
implementing the serialization of a new type.
The functions `save_data_dict` and `save_data_array` are helper functions
that structure the serialization.

> The examples below show they can be used to save data using the structure

Author: ```suggestion
The examples below show how to use them to structure data
```

> of an array or dict. Each nested call to `save_data_dict` or `save_data_array`

Author: ```suggestion
as an array or dict. Each nested call to `save_data_dict` or `save_data_array`
```

For example if `obj` is of type `RingElem` than it is expected that `type_and_params`
should contain at least `parent(obj)`.

> #### `type_params` / `TypeParams`

Reviewer: This needs to be updated for the renaming to `TypeAndParams`.

Many mathematical objects can only be interpreted in context. A polynomial
without its ring, a group element without its group, a module element without
its module — none of these can be reconstructed from their data alone. The
`type_params` mechanism is how that context is captured and stored.

`type_params` is a function you implement for your type. It returns a
`TypeParams` object describing the contextual parameters needed to reconstruct
an object. These parameters are stored in the `_type` branch of the serialized

> file (not in `data`).

Reviewer 2: Before we chisel this even more into stone, I'd wish we resolve https://github.com/oscar-system/Oscar.jl/issues/5129

My suggestion `type_and_params` there isn't great but IMHO much much better than `type_params` as it at least does not lead to confusion with the Julia concept of "type params". That is, it avoids active misdirection of the reader of the code.

Author: sure, @benlorenz  thoughts on `type_and_params`?

@fingolfin Do you also want the Struct to be renamed to `TypeAndParams` then?

Reviewer: I do agree that `type_and_params` is better than type params.

With the corresponding loading function similar to this.

```julia
function load_object(s::DeserializerState, tp::TypeParams{<:NewType})
  (obj1, obj2, obj3_4) = load_array_node(s) do i
    if i == 3
      obj3 = load_object(s, Obj3Type, :key1)
      obj4 = load_object(s, Obj4Type, :key2)
      return OtherType(obj3, obj4)
    elseif i == 1
      load_object(s, Obj1Type)
    else
      load_object(s, Obj2Type)
    end
  end
  return NewType(obj1, obj2, obj3_4)
end
```

##### `save_typed_object` inside `save_object`

> Do not call `save_typed_object` from within a `save_object` implementation.

Reviewer 2: Can't we catch this and turn it into an error? That seems more effective than a warning not to do something that people will miss or forget

Author: I think best way to turn this into an error would be during validation using the schema, but our current schema still accepts this.

Author: @benlorenz  opinions on this?

Author: see https://github.com/oscar-system/Oscar.jl/pull/6129

    end

    return dict
  end
))
```

`upgrade_recursive` handles traversal into containers (`Vector`, `Matrix`,
`Tuple`, `NamedTuple`, `Dict`) and known compound types automatically, so the
body of the upgrade function only needs to handle the specific type changes
introduced in that version.

###### Common patterns

**Renaming a type** — use the `rename_types` helper:
```julia
renamings = Dict{String,String}("OldName" => "NewName")
return rename_types(dict, renamings)
```

**Renaming a data field**:
```julia
if type_name == "MyType" && haskey(dict[:data], :old_name)
  dict[:data][:new_name] = pop!(dict[:data], :old_name)
end
```

**Flattening a nested type-params wrapper** — if a type previously stored
all its contextual data under a single params key and now stores them flat:
```julia
if type_name == "MyType" && haskey(dict[:_type][:params], :wrapper)
  wrapper = dict[:_type][:params][:wrapper]
  # promote each inner key to the top level
  for (k, v) in wrapper[:params]
    k === :key_params && continue   # skip Dict metadata if applicable
    dict[:_type][:params][k] = v
  end
  delete!(dict[:_type][:params], :wrapper)
end
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

`Tuple`, `NamedTuple`, `Dict`) and known compound types automatically, so the
body of the upgrade function only needs to handle the specific type changes
introduced in that version.

###### Common patterns

**Renaming a type** — use the `rename_types` helper:
```julia
renamings = Dict{String,String}("OldName" => "NewName")
return rename_types(dict, renamings)
```

**Renaming a data field**:
```julia
if type_name == "MyType" && haskey(dict[:data], :old_name)
  dict[:data][:new_name] = pop!(dict[:data], :old_name)
end
```

**Flattening a nested type-params wrapper** — if a type previously stored
all its contextual data under a single params key and now stores them flat:
```julia
if type_name == "MyType" && haskey(dict[:_type][:params], :wrapper)
  wrapper = dict[:_type][:params][:wrapper]
  # promote each inner key to the top level
  for (k, v) in wrapper[:params]
    k === :key_params && continue   # skip Dict metadata if applicable
    dict[:_type][:params][k] = v
  end
  delete!(dict[:_type][:params], :wrapper)
end
```

**Parsing a data value that was previously stored as a string**:
```julia
if type_name == "MyType"
  dict[:data][:flag] = parse(Bool, dict[:data][:flag])
end

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```
